.TH GRID-UPDATES 1 "April 2012" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.PP
grid-updates - Helper Script for Tahoe-LAFS Nodes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]grid-updates\f[] [\f[I]OPTIONS\f[]] \f[I]ACTIONS\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[I]grid-updates\f[] is a Python script intended to help keep
Tahoe-LAFS nodes' configurations up-to-date.
It can retrieve lists of introducers as well as news feeds from the
Tahoe grid.
This is useful for any public grid that relies solely on
volunteers.
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.B -s, --sync-introducers
Synchronize your node's local list of introducers with the master
list.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -m, --merge-introducers
Merge your node's local introducers list with the subscription's.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -n, --download-news
Retrieve the news feed.
See the \f[B]NEWS\f[] section below.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -r, --repair
Maintain or repair the health of the subscription service's URIs.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -R, --repair-list
Retrieve a list of shares and maintain/repair them.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B --patch-tahoe
Patch the Tahoe-LAFS web console to display the grid-updates news
feed in an Iframe.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B --undo-patch-tahoe
Remove the grid-updates patch to the Tahoe web console and restore
its original version.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B --make-news \f[I]file\f[]
Create a \f[I]grid-updates\f[]-compatible NEWS.tgz file from a
reStructuredText source file.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B --check-version
Check for a new version of this script on the grid.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B --download-update
Download a new version of this script from the grid to the
specified directory (implies \f[B]--check-update\f[]).
.RS
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c \f[I]config file\f[], --config \f[I]config file\f[]
Specify a grid-updates config file.
See \f[B]CONFIG FILES\f[] section below.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -u \f[I]URL\f[], --node-url \f[I]URL\f[]
Specify the gateway node's URL (default: http://127.0.0.1:3456),
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -d \f[I]directory\f[], --node-directory \f[I]directory\f[]
Specify the node directory (default: \f[I]~/.tahoe\f[]),
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B --format \f[I]tar|deb|zip|arch|exe|py2exe\f[]
Specify in which format to download the update.
Choices are: `tar' (unix source archive), `deb' (Debian package),
`arch' (ArchLinux package), `zip' (Windows source archive), `exe'
(Windows installer [requires Python]), `py2exe' (Windows installers
[doesn't require Python]).
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B --list-uri \f[I]URI\f[]
Override the default location of the introducers list.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B --news-uri \f[I]URI\f[]
Override the default location of the NEWS.tgz file.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B --script-uri \f[I]URI\f[]
Override the default location of script updates.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B --repairlist-uri \f[I]URI\f[]
Override the default location of the --repair-list subscription
file.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -v
Increase verbosity of output.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -V, --version
Display version information.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B -h, --help
Print usage information.
.RS
.RE
.SH CONFIG FILES
.PP
\f[I]grid-updates\f[] will look for configuration files in
$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/grid-updates/config.ini and
$XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/grid-updates/config.ini.
.PP
All options must be listed below the section \f[B][OPTIONS]\f[].
.PP
Accepted options are:
.TP
.B tahoe_node_dir = \f[I]directory\f[]
Same as --node-dir above
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B list_uri = \f[I]URI\f[]
Same as --list-uri option above
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B news_uri = \f[I]URI\f[]
Same as --news-uri option above
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B script_uri = \f[I]URI\f[]
Same as --script-uri option above
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B comrepair_uri = \f[I]URI\f[]
Same as --comrepair-uri option above
.RS
.RE
.SH NOTES
.PP
\f[I]URIs\f[], in this context, are Tahoe-LAFS directories like,
for example
\f[B]URI:DIR2-RO:22s6zidugdxaeikq6lakbxbcci:mgrc3nfnygslyqrh7hds22usp6hbn3pulg5bu2puv6y3wpoaaqqq\f[].
.SH NEWS
.PP
If you choose to download the news feed, \f[I]grid-updates\f[] will
place a plain text version of it in your node's directory and print
it to stdout.
This is intended to be sent by cron mail.
.PP
There is also an HTML version of the news feed that you can view in
a web browser.
You can access it either directly
(http://127.0.0.1:3456/static/NEWS.html) or have it be displayed on
your Tahoe node's web console.
You can prepare the console by running
\f[B]grid-updates\ --patch-tahoe\f[] once.
.PP
The Atom news feed (http://127.0.0.1:3456/static/NEWS.atom) can be
used by regular feed readers to check for \f[I]grid-updates\f[]
news.
(Please note, however, that you cannot \[lq]refresh\[rq] the feed
with regular news readers.
These files have to always be fetched by \f[I]grid-updates\f[]
first.)
.SH SHARE HEALTH
.PP
All \f[I]grid-updates\f[] subscriptions reside on the Tahoe grid,
which means that they need to be maintained (renewal of leases,
repairs).
Please contribute to their maintenance by running \f[B]--repair\f[]
from time to time.
.PP
If the script repeatedly fails to retrieve files from the grid, the
share may be damaged and you will have to find a new set of URIs to
subscribe to.
One way to possibly get them is to run \f[B]--check-version\f[] to
see if there is a new version of \f[I]grid-updates\f[] available.
Newer versions might already include new default URIs.
.SH INFORMATION FOR SUBSCRIPTION MAINTAINERS
.PP
If you want to offer a \f[I]grid-updates\f[] subscription service,
you will have to provide users with URIs to directories that
contain the subscription files.
The available subscription types are the news feed (called
\f[B]NEWS.tgz\f[]), the introducer list (called
\f[B]introducers.json.txt\f[]) and the repair list (called
\f[B]repair-list.json.txt\f[]).
.PP
For the specific requirements of the JSON lists, please see the
included example files in the share directory.
.PP
Please note that \f[I]grid-updates\f[] expects the URIs of
directories, not of the files themselves.
It will append the filenames itself.
.SH FILES
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]~/.tahoe/introducers\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD

.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]~/.tahoe/NEWS\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD

.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]~/.tahoe/public_html/NEWS.html\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD

.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]~/.tahoe/public_html/NEWS.atom\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD

.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/grid-updates/config\f[] (most commonly
~/.config)
.PD 0
.P
.PD

.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]$XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/grid-updates/config\f[] (most commonly
/etc/xdg)
.SH BUGS
.PP
Please report bugs in #tahoe-lafs on Irc2p or via email (see
below).
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
The \f[I]grid-updates\f[] Git repositories:
.IP \[bu] 2
http://darrob.i2p/grid-updates/
.PD 0
.P
.PD

.IP \[bu] 2
http://git.repo.i2p/r/grid-updates.git
.PD 0
.P
.PD

.IP \[bu] 2
http://killyourtv.i2p/git/grid-updates.git
.PP
The README on the grid:
.PP
\f[CR]
      URI:DIR2-RO:hgh5ylzzj6ey4a654ir2yxxblu:hzk3e5rbsefobeqhliytxpycop7ep6qlscmw4wzj5plicg3ilotq/README.html
\f[]
.PP
Information about Tahoe-LAFS for I2P and the I2P grid:
http://killyourtv.i2p
.SH LICENSE
.PP
\f[I]grid-updates\f[] has been released into the public domain.
This means that you can do whatever you please with it.
.SH AUTHORS
darrob <darrob@mail.i2p>, KillYourTV <killyourtv@mail.i2p>.

